   A. MQTT:
MQTT stands for MQ Telemetry Transport, where the MQ came from an old IBM product line called IBM MQ for Message Queues (although MQTT itself does not use queues). That doesn’t really give many hints about its use.

MQTT is a lightweight publish/subscribe architecture that is designed for resource-constrained devices and low-bandwidth setups. It is used a lot for Internet of Things devices, or other machine-to-machine communication, and has been around since 1999. Port 1883 is reserved for use with MQTT.

Publish/Subscribe
In the publish/subscribe architecture, there is a broker, or hub, that receives messages published to it by different clients. The broker then routes the messages to any clients subscribing to those particular messages.

This is managed through the use of what are called “topics”. One client publishes to a topic, while another client subscribes to the topic. The broker handles passing the message from the publishing client on that topic to any subscribers. These clients therefore don’t need to know anything about each other, just the topic they want to publish or subscribe to.

MQTT is one example of this type of architecture, and is very lightweight. While you could publish information such as the count of bounding boxes over MQTT, you cannot publish a video frame using it. Publish/subscribe is also used with self-driving cars, such as with the Robot Operating System, or ROS for short. There, a stop light classifier may publish on one topic, with an intermediate system that determines when to brake subscribing to that topic, and then that system could publish to another topic that the actual brake system itself subscribes to.
   
   Links:    http://mqtt.org/
             https://internetofthingsagenda.techtarget.com/definition/MQTT-MQ-Telemetry-Transport
   
   B. Communicating with MQTT:
There is a useful Python library for working with MQTT called paho-mqtt. Within, there is a sub-library called client, which is how you create an MQTT client that can publish or subscribe to the broker.

To do so, you’ll need to know the IP address of the broker, as well as the port for it. With those, you can connect the client, and then begin to either publish or subscribe to topics.

Publishing involves feeding in the topic name, as well as a dictionary containing a message that is dumped to JSON. Subscribing just involves feeding in the topic name to be subscribed to.

     LINKS:    to paho MQTT: https://pypi.org/project/paho-mqtt/
               https://software.intel.com/en-us/iot/hardware/all
   
   C. Streaming Images to a Server:
Sometimes, you may still want a video feed to be streamed to a server. A security camera that detects a person where they shouldn’t be and sends an alert is useful, but you likely want to then view the footage. Since MQTT can’t handle images, we have to look elsewhere.

At the start of the course, we noted that network communications can be expensive in cost, bandwidth and power consumption. Video streaming consumes a ton of network resources, as it requires a lot of data to be sent over the network, clogging everything up. Even with high-speed internet, multiple users streaming video can cause things to slow down. As such, it’s important to first consider whether you even need to stream video to a server, or at least only stream it in certain situations, such as when your edge AI algorithm has detected a particular event.

FFmpeg
Of course, there are certainly situations where streaming video is necessary. The FFmpeg library is one way to do this. The name comes from “fast forward” MPEG, meaning it’s supposed to be a fast way of handling the MPEG video standard (among others).

In our case, we’ll use the ffserver feature of FFmpeg, which, similar to MQTT, will actually have an intermediate FFmpeg server that video frames are sent to. The final Node server that displays a webpage will actually get the video from that FFmpeg server.

There are other ways to handle streaming video as well. In Python, you can also use a flask server to do some similar things, although we’ll focus on FFmpeg here.

Setting up FFmpeg
You can download FFmpeg from ffmpeg.org. Using ffserver in particular requires a configuration file that we will provide for you. This config file sets the port and IP address of the server, as well as settings like the ports to receive video from, and the framerate of the video. These settings can also allow it to listen to the system stdout buffer, which is how you can send video frames to it in Python.

Sending frames to FFmpeg
With the sys Python library, can use sys.stdout.buffer.write(frame) and sys.stdout.flush() to send the frame to the ffserver when it is running.

If you have a ffmpeg folder containing the configuration file for the server, you can launch the ffserver with the following from the command line:

sudo ffserver -f ./ffmpeg/server.conf
From there, you need to actually pipe the information from the Python script to FFmpeg. To do so, you add the | symbol after the python script (as well as being after any related arguments to that script, such as the model file or CPU extension), followed by ffmpeg and any of its related arguments.

For example:

python app.py -m “model.xml” | ffmpeg -framerate 24
And so on with additional arguments before or after the pipe symbol depending on whether they are for the Python application or for FFmpeg.
   Links: https://www.ffmpeg.org/
          https://opensource.com/article/19/1/basic-live-video-streaming-server
          https://www.pyimagesearch.com/2019/09/02/opencv-stream-video-to-web-browser-html-page/
          
    D.  Handling Statistics and Images from a Node Server:
Node.js is an open-source environment for servers, where Javascript can be run outside of a browser. Consider a social media page, for instance - that page is going to contain different content for each different user, based on their social network. Node allows for Javascript to run outside of the browser to gather the various relevant posts for each given user, and then send those posts to the browser.

In our case, a Node server can be used to handle the data coming in from the MQTT and FFmpeg servers, and then actually render that content for a web page user interface.
     LINK:    https://nodejs.org/en/about/

    E. Analyzing Performance Basics:
 Lighter, quicker models are helpful for the edge, and certain optimizations like lower precision that help with these will have some impact on accuracy, as we discussed earlier on.

No amount of skillful post-processing and attempting to extract useful data from the output will make up for a poor model choice, or one where too many sacrifices were made for speed.

Of course, it all depends on the exact application as to how much loss of accuracy is acceptable. Detecting a pet getting into the trash likely can handle less accuracy than a self-driving car in determining where objects are on the road.

The considerations of speed, size and network impacts are still very important for AI at the Edge. Faster models can free up computation for other tasks, lead to less power usage, or allow for use of cheaper hardware. Smaller models can also free up memory for other tasks, or allow for devices with less memory to begin with. We’ve also discussed some of the network impacts earlier. Especially for remote edge devices, the power costs of heavy network communication may significantly hamper their use,

Lastly, there can be other differences in cloud vs edge costs other than just network effects. While potentially lower up front, cloud storage and computation costs can add up over time. Data sent to the cloud could be intercepted along the way. Whether this is better or not at the edge does depend on a secure edge device, which isn’t always the case for IoT.
         LINK:   https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/2019_R3/_docs_IE_DG_Intro_to_Performance.html

    F. Model Use Cases:
It’s important to think about any additional use cases for a given model or application you build, which can reach far beyond the original training set or intended use. For example, object detection can be used for so many things, and focusing on certain classes along with some post-processing can lead to very different applications.
        LINK:    https://www.nauto.com/blog/nauto-engineering-deep-learning-for-distracted-driver-monitoring

   G.  Concerning End User Needs:
If you are building an app for certain end users, it’s very important to consider their needs. Knowing their needs can inform the various trade-offs you make regarding model decisions (speed, size, accuracy, etc.), what information to send to servers, security of information, etc. If they have more resources available, you might go for a higher accuracy but more resource-intensive app, while an end user with remote, low-power devices will likely have to sacrifice some accuracy for a lighter, faster app, and need some additional considerations about network usage.

This is just to get you thinking - building edge applications is about more than just models and code.
 
 
